# ByLabel: A Boundary Based Semi-Automatic Image Annotation Tool
This is a tool for image and video annotation. Currently, it can only run on 64bit Ubuntu OS.</br>

USED LIBRARIES
====
Users do not have to set these libriaries up, since this tool has been compiled with required static libriaries.
----
This implementation is based on Opencv 2.4.9(3.1.0), and ubuntu 14.04 64 bit.</br>

The edge detector used here is EdgeDrawing(EDLib.h) which is proposed in 
`"C. Topal, C. Akinlar, Edge Drawing: A Combined Real-Time Edge and Segment Detector,” Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 23(6), 862-872, 2012."` 
and can be downloaded from http://ceng.anadolu.edu.tr/CV/downloads/downloads.aspx. We include the lib in the root directory. It is worth to note that we are using the 64 bit ubuntu version of Edge Drawing. We sugggest to test our algorithm on a 64bit Ubuntu OS.

INSTALLATION
====

Just Download the code: *git clone https://github.com/NathanUA/ground-truth-labeling.git*</br>
The code has already been compiled.

RUN
====

Go to the root folder *ground-truth-labeling* and run: ./GDTL

ANNOTATION CONFIGURATIONS
====

Go to the root folder ByLabel, open bylabel.cfg:<br>

1. `multi_class`     #indicate the number of to-be-annotated classes<br>

    `"0"`     binary classes annotation.<br>

    `"1"`     multiple classes annotation.<br>

2. `source_type`     #indicate the type of to-be-annotated files<br>

    `"1"`     Images (All formats that supported by OpenCV such as JPG, PNG, BMP, TIF and MPEG).<br>

    `"2"`     Video (All formats that supported by OpenCV such as MP4 and AVI).<br>

3. `input_path`     #set the path of source images/video<br>

     If `"souce_type"` is `"1"`, it should be the folder name of images, such as `"./Test/images"`.<br>

     If `"souce_type"` is `"2"`, it should be the full path and name of the video, such as `"./Test/demo.avi"`.<br>

4. `output_path`     #set the path of outputs<br>

     Such as `"./Test/annotation"`. If the folder `"annotation"` does not exit, the tool will create a new folder named as `"annotation"`.<br>

5. `simple_shape`     #indicate the shape complexity of to-be-annotated objects<br>

    `"0"`     Target objects with multiple boundaries.<br>

    `"1"`     Target objects with single boundary.<br>

6. `start_idx`     #indicate the starting index of to-be-annotated images<br>

     This is used to neglect the first `"start_idx"` images/frames.<br>

ANNOTATION OPERATIONS
====
Mouse and keyboard operations of ByLabel:<br>

1. `MOUSE LEFT BUTTON CLICK`<br>

    Select detected edge fragments or draw control points.<br>

2. `MOUSE MIDDLE BUTTON (MOUSE WHEEL) CLICK`<br>

    Close the selected boundary.<br>

3. `MOUSE WHEEL SCROLL`<br>

    Zoom in/out the image.<br>

4. `"A"`<br>

    Switch between "selecting" and "drawing" mode.<br>

5. `"B"`<br>

    Break edge fragments at the pixel where mouse cursor is located.<br>

6. `"E"`<br>

    Enable or disable showing of detected edge fragments.<br>

7. `"F"`<br>

    Unselect the last selected edge fragment or segment.<br>

8. `"ESC"`<br>

    Exit ByLabel.<br>

OUTPUTS
====
Annotation are outputed in following seven folders.<br>


The folder `"annotation"` is assigned by users in `"bylabel.cfg"`, other names are also allowed. Following seven folders are generated by ByLabel.<br>

1. `color_im_overlap`<br>
    Images with annotated boundaries are outputed in this folder for after annotation checking.<br>

2. `edge_map_classes`<br>
    (1) For each annotated image, there will be a corresponding class-based colorful edge map and a .txt file in this folder.<br>

    (2) In a color map, each class is assigned a unique color. The .txt file records the objects' class names and their color code as follows:<br>
`"2`<br>
`cup 185 185 175`<br>
`candy 165 185 115"`<br>
The number in the first line denotes the annotated classes of its' corresponding image.<br>

    (3) There is another file named as "classesColor.txt" which records those class names and their corresponding color codes as follows:<br>
`"4`<br>
`cup 185 185 175`<br>
`candy 165 185 115`<br>
`scissors 195 185 195`<br>
`bowl 205 185 195"`<br>
The number in the first line denotes the totally annotated classes in all of the images.<br>

3. `edge_map_instances`<br>
    (1) For each annotated image, there will be a corresponding instance-based colorful edge map and a .txt file in this folder.<br>

    (2) In a color map, each object instance is assigned a unique color. The .txt file records those objects' class names and their corresponding color codes as follows:<br>
`"4`<br>
`cup 155 185 175`<br>
`cup 155 185 225`<br>
`cup 155 185 115`<br>
`cup 155 185 195`<br>
`candy 155 185 125`<br>
`candy 155 185 145`<br>
`candy 155 185 135`<br>
`candy 155 185 165"`<br>
The number in the first line denotes the totally annotated objects in this image.<br>

4. `region_map_classes`<br>
    The outputs in this folder are similar to that in folder "edge_map_classes".<br>

cup_candy_classes<br>
5. `region_map_instances`<br>
    The outputs in this folder are similar to that in folder "edge_map_instances".<br>

6. `text_ EF_pixels`<br>
     For each annotated image, there will be a .txt file in this folder. Each line of a .txt file describes one edge fragment:<br>

     `"n`<br>
      `[edge_fragment_id] [point1.x] [point1.y] [point2.x] [point2.y] ... [pointn.x] [pointn.y]`<br>
      `[edge_fragment_id] [point1.x] [point1.y] [point2.x] [point2.y] ... [pointn.x] [pointn.y]`<br>
      `......"`<br>

     The "n" in the first line indicates the total number of detected edge fragments.<br>

7. `text_shape_pixels`<br>
    For each annotated image, there will be a .txt file in this foler. Each line of a .txt file describes the information of a selected/drawn edge fragment:<br>

    `"# [object_id] [class_name] [boundaries_number] [boundary_id] [fragments_number] [edge_fragment_id] [fragment_type] [point1.x] [point1.y] [point2.x] [point2.y] ... [pointm.x] [pointm.y]"`<br>

CONTACTS
====

Xuebin Qin
----
Department of Computing Science</br>
University of Alberta</br>
Edmonton, AB, Canada, T6G 2E8</br>

Email:</br>
xuebin@ualberta.ca</br>
xuebinua@gmail.com

